Using the Multiplexing Look and Feel (Java SE 21 & JDK 21)
JavaScript is disabled on your browser.
Skip navigation links
Java SE 21 & JDK 21
Overview
Module
Package
Class
Use
Tree
Preview
New
Deprecated
Index
Help
SEARCH
Using the Multiplexing Look and Feel
The Multiplexing look and feel lets
you supplement an ordinary look and feel
(called the
default
look and feel)
with one or more
auxiliary
look and feels.
For example, you could
simultaneously provide text-to-speech and Braille outputs,
in addition to the ordinary visual output that a Swing-based
application generates,
by adding
two auxiliary look and feels (one for text-to-speech,
the other for Braille)
to the default look and feel.
The default look and feel can be any ordinary look and feel --
the Java or Windows look and feel, for example --
and requires no modifications to work with auxiliary look and feels.
This document has the following sections:
Overview
How to Use Auxiliary Look and Feels
Tips for Writing an Auxiliary Look and Feel
Dos and Don'ts
Extending UIDefaults
Examining Other UI Objects
How the Multiplexing Look and Feel is
     Implemented
How to Provide a Custom Multiplexing
     Look and Feel
Before reading further, you should be familiar
with the concept of pluggable look and feels.
For basic information, see
How to Set the Look and Feel
, a section in
The Java Tutorial
.
For architectural details, you can read
Pluggable look-and-feel architecture
, a section within
a
Swing Connection
article.
Overview
The classes in the
javax.swing.plaf.multi
package
implement a
multiplexing look and feel
.
A multiplexing look and feel transparently creates -- and
simultaneously supports -- UI objects from several different look and feels
in response to a component requesting its UI object
(with the
getUI
method).
Without a multiplexing look and feel, a
developer who wanted to enhance a particular look and feel would
need to extend the classes supporting that look and feel. For example, to
add text-to-speech support to the Java look and feel without using a multiplexing
look and feel, the developer would need to create a group of
classes that extend those of
the Java look and feel, and add text-to-speech support to the new classes.
If the developer also wanted to add text-to-speech support to other look
and feels,
such as Motif or Windows, the developers would need to create subclasses
of those classes as well.
This approach has at least two shortcomings:
First, each subclass must use what is
      essentially a copy of the same code, potentially creating a difficult
      support situation for the developer.
Second, and more significantly for the
      end user, some application developers might force a
      particular look and feel to be used. When this approach is used,
      the end user can't even use the enhanced look and feel.
A multiplexing look and feel
both these problems simultaneously because it allows multiple look
and feels to be combined.
The first problem (having to use what amounts to a second copy of the same
code) is solved because the developer can create a specialized look
and feel that can then be combined with other look and feels.
The second problem (having to force the use of
a particular look and feel) is solved because a specialized look and feel
can be used with whatever default look and feel the
application may have locked in place.
The default multiplexing look and feel implementation,
represented by the
MultiLookAndFeel
class
in the
javax.swing.plaf.multi
package,
is called (unsurprisingly)
the Multiplexing look and feel.
How to Use Auxiliary Look and Feels
It's easy to use auxiliary look and feels with Swing. To instruct
Swing to use the Multiplexing look and feel, all an application
has to do is modify the
$JDKHOME/conf/swing.properties
file to include a definition of the
swing.auxiliarylaf
property. Swing treats the
swing.auxiliarylaf
property as a comma-separated list of
LookAndFeel
subclasses that specify what auxiliary look and feels should be
used in addition to the default look and feel. If at least one valid
LookAndFeel
subclass is specified in the
swing.auxiliarylaf
property, Swing automatically uses the Multiplexing look and feel
to load and support the default and auxiliary look and feels.
For example, let's assume that an application
makes use of a look and feel that supports text-to-speech feedback, and also
uses an look and feel that adds support for a device
that emits perfume.
Let's assume that the text-to-speech
look and feel is named
com.myco.TextTalkerLookAndFeel
,
and the look and feel that adds support for perfume
is named
com.smellco.OlfactoryLookAndFeel
.
To tell Swing to use both these look and feels
-- and to use a default look and feel at the same time -- your application
could simply add the following line to the
$JDKHOME/conf/swing.properties
file:
swing.auxiliarylaf=com.myco.TextTalkerLookAndFeel,
com.smellco.OlfactoryLookAndFeel
This statement tells Swing to obtain a component's UI from the Multiplexing
look and feel automatically, instead of obtaining it directly from
the default look and feel. The resulting multiplexing UI is a small
delegate that obtains and maintains UIs from the default and auxiliary
look and feels. As a result, when a method is invoked in a multiplexing
UI object, the multiplexing UI invokes the same method on each
of the UIs obtained from the default and auxiliary look and feels.
Tips for Writing an Auxiliary Look and Feel
An auxiliary look and feel is like any other look and feel,
except that it doesn't have to provide the complete support
that a default look and feel must. For
example, an auxiliary look and feel that supports just text-to-speech feedback
doesn't need to provide any code for painting.
Also, it might not need to support all components --
JSeparator
s, for example, might be ignored.
Auxiliary look and feels tend to be simple,
so developing one can be easier than developing a visual
look and feel.
The developer can concentrate solely
on providing the specialized functionality.
Because the primary purpose of an auxiliary look and feel is to enhance the
default look and feel, auxiliary look and feels tend
be nonvisual. Since an auxiliary look and feel is a genuine
look and feel, however, there is nothing to prevent it
from rendering information on the display.
Just like for any other look and feel, you
implement an auxiliary look and feel
by writing a subclass of
javax.swing.LookAndFeel
and creating subclasses of the
Foo
UI
classes defined in
the
javax.swing.plaf
package.
Dos and Don'ts
The following paragraphs provide some general recommendations for developing
auxiliary look and feels.
Use the
installUI
method
to perform all initialization,
and the
uninstallUI
method
to perform all cleanup.
The
installUI
and
uninstallUI
methods are invoked when a component's look and feel is set.
The
installUI
method gives the new UI object
a chance to add listeners on the component and its data model.
Similarly, the
uninstallUI
method
lets the previous UI object remove its listeners.
Don't extend visual look and feels.
We recommended that you
don't
implement
                UI classes of an auxiliary look and feel as subclasses of the
                UI classes of a visual look and feel. Why not? Because they might
                accidentally inherit code that installs listeners on a component
                object or renders the component on the display. As a result,
                your auxiliary look and feel would compete with the default look
                and feel rather than cooperating with it.
Instead, we recommend that the UI classes of an auxiliary look
                and feel directly extend the abstract UI classes in the
javax.swing.plaf
package. By using this strategy, the developer of an auxiliary
                look and feel can avoid competing with the default look and feel.
Override all UI-specific methods your UI classes inherit.
We recommend that each UI class of
                an auxiliary look and feel override the methods
                defined in the
javax.swing.plaf
UI classes it descends from
                The reasons for this recommendation are similar
                to those for not extending a visual look and feel.
                For example, the
ComponentUI
class, from which all UI classes descend,
                provides a default implementation for the
update
method. This default implementation paints on the display
                if the
                component is opaque. If a UI class from a non-visual auxiliary
                look and feel does not override this method, all
                opaque components appear as blank areas on the screen!
Extending UIDefaults
In many cases, you
              might want an auxiliary look and feel to be "incomplete." That
              is, you might not need to support the complete set
              of components.
            For example, an auxiliary look and feel might choose
            to provide a
ButtonUI
subclass but no
LabelUI
subclass.
             This
              option is allowed, and the multiplexing look and feel gracefully
              handles such situations.
By default, however, Swing issues an error message when it asks
              a look and feel for a UI object and the look and feel does not
              support that UI. This message can be annoying, especially to auxiliary
              look-and-feel developers who don't want to support a particular
              component.
Fortunately, you can prevent this error
              message by creating a subclass of the
UIDefaults
class and returning an instance of it from the
getDefaults
method
              of your
LookAndFeel
class.
              For example:
public class MyAuxLookAndFeel
              extends LookAndFeel {
...
public UIDefaults getDefaults() {
UIDefaults table =
new MyAuxUIDefaults();
Object[] uiDefaults = {
"ButtonUI", "MyAuxButtonUI",
...
}
table.putDefaults(uiDefaults);
return table;
}
}
class MyAuxUIDefaults extends UIDefaults {
protected void getUIError(String msg) {
//System.err.println
//   ("An
              annoying message!");
}
}
In the preceding example, an auxiliary look and feel named
MyAux
creates a
UIDefaults
subclass
              that overrides the
getUIError
method. The
getUIError
method is the method that is invoked when Swing cannot find a UI
              object in a look and feel. By merely doing nothing in this method,
              you can avoid the error message.
Examining Other UI Objects
In
              rare instances, a UI object from an auxiliary look and feel
              may be interested in the default UI object used by the component. In
              these cases, the UI object from auxiliary look and feel can obtain
              the UI from a component by calling its
getUI
method. The returned UI is an instance of one of the multiplexing
              look and feel UI classes (for example,
MultiButtonUI
).
              The UI object from the auxiliary look and feel can call the
getUIs
method of the returned object to obtain an array containing a complete list
              of all UI objects handled by the multiplexing UI. The first element
              is guaranteed to be the UI created from the default look and feel.
How the Multiplexing Look and Feel Is Implemented
The Multiplexing look and feel
(represented by
javax.swing.plaf.multi.MultiLookAndFeel
)
is meant to be transparent to
all developers and users. It should "just work" -- and
              it is used only when the user tells Swing to use an auxiliary look
              and feel.
When the Multiplexing look and
              feel is in use, the type of the UI object
              associated with each component
              depends on whether
              any of the auxiliary look and feels currently in use
              support the component.
              If so, the component's UI object is
              an instance of a multiplexing UI.
              If only the default look and feel supports the component,
              then the component gets
              a UI object from the default look and feel,
              just as if no auxiliary look and feels were installed.
A multiplexing UI object
              obtains and maintains UI objects
              from the default and auxiliary look
              and feels,
              referring to these UIs in the following manner:
The UI object from the default look
                and feel is always the first to be created. After that, a UI object
                is created from each auxiliary look and feel in the order
                they are specified in the
swing.auxiliarylaf
property.
When a method that requests information
                from a UI object is invoked, the multiplexing UI object
                invokes the method on all the UI objects, but returns
                only the results from the UI for the default look and feel.
                For example, when the
getPreferredSize
method is invoked on a multiplexing UI, the UI returns only the
                results of invoking
getPreferredSize
on the UI obtained from the default look and feel.
                The
getPreferredSize
method
                is also invoked on the UI object for each auxiliary look and feel,
                but the return values are ignored.
When a method that does not request information
                from the UI object is invoked, the multiplexing UI object
                invokes that method on all UIs --
                on the UI object obtained from the default look
                and feel
                and on all the UIs obtained from the auxiliary look and feels,
                as well.
                For example, invoking the
installUI
method on a multiplexing UI causes the multiplexing UI to invoke
installUI
on the UI obtained from the default look and feel and the UIs obtained from
                the auxiliary factories.
In all cases, the UI object obtained from
              the default look and feel is acted upon first, and then the auxiliary
              look and feels are acted upon in the order they are specified in
              the
swing.auxiliarylaf
property.
How to Provide a Custom Multiplexing Look and Feel
While
              we hope the behavior of the Multiplexing look and feel is
              flexible enough not to require an alternative multiplexing look
              and feel, Swing allows the user to specify another multiplexing look
              and feel to use.
To do that, all the user has to do is modify
              the
$JDKHOME/conf/swing.properties
file to include a definition of the
swing.plaf.multiplexinglaf
property. Swing then treats the
swing.plaf.multiplexinglaf
property as a
LookAndFeel
subclass that supports multiplexing.
For example, if a user has a multiplexing
              look and feel represented by
com.myco.SuperMultiLookAndFeel
that is a better match for their needs than the Multiplexing
              look and feel
              (
javax.swing.plaf.multi.MultiLookAndFeel
),
              the user could include the following line in
$JDKHOME/conf/swing.properties
:
swing.plaf.multiplexinglaf = com.myco.SuperMultiLookAndFeel
This statement instructs Swing to use
com.myco.SuperMultiLookAndFeel
instead of
javax.swing.plaf.multi.MultiLookAndFeel
. But
if you use this kind of statement, be careful, because the suppliers
of auxiliary look and feels will most likely have developed and
tested against our Multiplexing look and feel.
Report a bug or suggest an enhancement
For further API reference and developer documentation see the
Java SE Documentation
, which contains more detailed, developer-targeted descriptions with conceptual overviews, definitions of terms, workarounds, and working code examples.
Other versions.
Java is a trademark or registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates in the US and other countries.
Copyright
© 1993, 2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA.
All rights reserved. Use is subject to
license terms
and the
documentation redistribution policy
.