java.util.logging (Java SE 21 & JDK 21)
JavaScript is disabled on your browser.
Skip navigation links
Java SE 21 & JDK 21
Overview
Module
Package
Class
Use
Tree
Preview
New
Deprecated
Index
Help
Package:
Description
Related Packages
Classes and Interfaces
Package:
Description
|
Related Packages
|
Classes and Interfaces
SEARCH
Module
java.logging
Package java.util.logging
package
java.util.logging
Provides the classes and interfaces of
 the Java 2 platform's core logging facilities.
 The central goal of the logging APIs is to support maintaining and servicing
 software at customer sites.
There are four main target uses of the logs:
Problem diagnosis by end users and system administrators
.
           This consists of simple logging of common problems that can be fixed
           or tracked locally, such as running out of resources, security failures,
           and simple configuration errors.
Problem diagnosis by field service engineers
. The logging information
            used by field service engineers may be considerably more complex and
            verbose than that required by system administrators.  Typically such information
            will require extra logging within particular subsystems.
Problem diagnosis by the development organization
.
          When a problem occurs in the field, it may be necessary to return the captured logging
          information to the original development team for diagnosis. This logging
          information may be extremely detailed and fairly inscrutable. Such information might include
          detailed tracing on the internal execution of particular subsystems.
Problem diagnosis by developers
. The Logging APIs may also be
            used to help debug an application under development. This may
            include logging information generated by the target application
            as well as logging information generated by lower-level libraries.
            Note however that while this use is perfectly reasonable,
            the logging APIs are not intended to replace the normal debugging
            and profiling tools that may already exist in the development environment.
The key elements of this package include:
Logger
: The main entity on which applications make
                 logging calls. A Logger object is used to log messages
                 for a specific system or application
                 component.
LogRecord
: Used to pass logging requests between the logging
                    framework and individual log handlers.
Handler
: Exports LogRecord objects to a variety of destinations
                  including memory, output streams, consoles, files, and sockets.
                  A variety of Handler subclasses exist for this purpose. Additional Handlers
                  may be developed by third parties and delivered on top of the core platform.
Level
: Defines a set of standard logging levels that can be used
                       to control logging output. Programs can be configured to output logging
                       for some levels while ignoring output for others.
Filter
: Provides fine-grained control over what gets logged,
                        beyond the control provided by log levels. The logging APIs support a general-purpose
                        filter mechanism that allows application code to attach arbitrary filters to
                        control logging output.
Formatter
: Provides support for formatting LogRecord objects. This
                           package includes two formatters, SimpleFormatter and
                           XMLFormatter, for formatting log records in plain text
                           or XML respectively. As with Handlers, additional Formatters
                           may be developed by third parties.
The Logging APIs offer both static and dynamic configuration control.
 Static control enables field service staff to set up a particular configuration and then re-launch the
 application with the new logging settings. Dynamic control allows for updates to the
 logging configuration within a currently running program. The APIs also allow for logging to be
 enabled or disabled for different functional areas of the system. For example,
 a field service engineer might be interested in tracing all AWT events, but might have no interest in
 socket events or memory management.
Null Pointers
In general, unless otherwise noted in the javadoc, methods and
 constructors will throw NullPointerException if passed a null argument.
 The one broad exception to this rule is that the logging convenience
 methods in the Logger class (the config, entering, exiting, fine, finer, finest,
 log, logp, logrb, severe, throwing, and warning methods)
 will accept null values
 for all arguments except for the initial Level argument (if any).
Related Documentation
For an overview of control flow,
 please refer to the
Java Logging Overview
Since:
1.4
Related Packages
Module
Package
Description
java.base
java.util
Contains the collections framework, some internationalization support classes,
 a service loader, properties, random number generation, string parsing
 and scanning classes, base64 encoding and decoding, a bit array, and
 several miscellaneous utility classes.
All Classes and Interfaces
Interfaces
Classes
Class
Description
ConsoleHandler
This
Handler
publishes log records to
System.err
.
ErrorManager
ErrorManager objects can be attached to Handlers to process
 any error that occurs on a Handler during Logging.
FileHandler
Simple file logging
Handler
.
Filter
A Filter can be used to provide fine grain control over
 what is logged, beyond the control provided by log levels.
Formatter
A Formatter provides support for formatting LogRecords.
Handler
A
Handler
object takes log messages from a
Logger
and
 exports them.
Level
The Level class defines a set of standard logging levels that
 can be used to control logging output.
Logger
A Logger object is used to log messages for a specific
 system or application component.
LoggingMXBean
Deprecated.
LoggingMXBean
is no longer a
platform MXBean
and is replaced
 with
PlatformLoggingMXBean
.
LoggingPermission
The permission which the SecurityManager will check when code
 that is running with a SecurityManager calls one of the logging
 control methods (such as Logger.setLevel).
LogManager
There is a single global LogManager object that is used to
 maintain a set of shared state about Loggers and log services.
LogRecord
LogRecord objects are used to pass logging requests between
 the logging framework and individual log Handlers.
MemoryHandler
Handler
that buffers requests in a circular buffer in memory.
SimpleFormatter
Print a brief summary of the
LogRecord
in a human readable
 format.
SocketHandler
Simple network logging
Handler
.
StreamHandler
Stream based logging
Handler
.
XMLFormatter
Format a LogRecord into a standard XML format.
Report a bug or suggest an enhancement
For further API reference and developer documentation see the
Java SE Documentation
, which contains more detailed, developer-targeted descriptions with conceptual overviews, definitions of terms, workarounds, and working code examples.
Other versions.
Java is a trademark or registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates in the US and other countries.
Copyright
© 1993, 2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA.
All rights reserved. Use is subject to
license terms
and the
documentation redistribution policy
.