Java Platform Debugger Architecture
Java SE 21 & JDK 21
API
OTHER SPECIFICATIONS
TOOL GUIDES
Java Platform Debugger Architecture
Java Platform Debugger Architecture
Overview
The Java Platform Debugger Architecture (JPDA) consists of two
interfaces (JVM TI and JDI), a protocol (JDWP) and two software
components which tie them together (back-end and front-end). The intent
of JVM TI is multi-fold:
To provide standard interfaces (for the sake of simplicity we will
refer to JDWP as an interface) which allow Java programming language
debugging tools to be easily written without regard to platform
specifics such hardware, operating system and virtual machine
implementation.
To describe a complete architecture for implementing these
interfaces, including remote and cross-platform debugging.
To provide a reference implementation of this architecture.
To provide a highly modular architecture where the implementation
and/or client of an interface can be different than the reference
implementation or different from the JPDA component.
Background
See
Java Platform Debugger
Architecture
.
Modularity
Details of the modular structure of JPDA are discussed below. In each
case the standard JPDA usage is described. The reference implementation
is described and alternative implementations and clients of the
interface are discussed.
JVM TI Modularity
The Java Virtual Machine Tool Interface (JVM TI) describes the
functionality provided by a virtual machine (VM) in order to allow
debugging of Java programming language applications running under this
VM. In JPDA, JVM TI is implemented by a VM and the client is the JPDA
back-end. In the reference implementation of JPDA, JVM TI is implemented
by the Java HotSpot VM and the client is the reference implementation of
the back-end, supplied as a native shared library (jdwp.so, jdwp.dll,
...), which is shipped with the JDK.
Many VMs other than the Java HotSpot VM implement JVM TI. The
reference implementation of the back-end has been ported to other
platforms. And there are JVM TI clients other than the back-end, most
notably agents for applications that allow debugging of both native and
Java programming language code, and thus need native level control and
information. We are aware of no clean-room implementations of the
back-end, although this is possible - and a lot of work.
JDWP Modularity
The Java Debug Wire Protocol (JDWP) describes the format of debugging
information and requests between a debuggee and a debugger. In JPDA,
there is a communication channel between the front-end (in the debugger
process) and the back-end (in the debuggee process) - the format of data
flowing on this channel is described by JDWP. In the reference
implementation of JPDA, the reference implementation of the back-end
(above) provides the debuggee side of this channel, and the reference
implementation of the front-end (a Java programming language component
of the JDK, located in tools.jar) provides the debugger side.
JVM TI is problematic to implement in some VMs. JDWP is implemented
directly in such VMs. On the client side, an application written in a
language other than the Java programming language may not be an optimal
candidate for using JDI. Some have chosen to be clients of JDWP.
JDI Modularity
The Java Debug Interface (JDI) provides a pure Java programming
language interface for debugging Java programming language applications.
In JPDA, the JDI is a remote view in the debugger process of a virtual
machine in the debuggee process. It is implemented by the front-end
(above) while a debugger-like application (IDE, debugger, tracer,
monitoring tool, ...) is the client.
The JDI could be implemented by a system with a static view of an
application. It could be implemented by a system with a mechanism
utterly different than JDWP/front-end for collecting information or
controlling a VM.
Walk-through
The various ways that the interfaces can be used is discussed above.
This section will examine how the standard full JPDA works. The examples
go into detail about specific calls and codes. It is not important to
understand these -- they are present only to make the examples more
concrete.
Across each interface there are two classes of activity: requests and
events. Requests originate on the debugger side and include queries for
information, setting of state changes in the remote VM/application, and
setting of debugging state. Events originate on the debuggee side and
denote changes of state in the remote VM/application.
Let's walk through an example. A user clicks on a local variable in a
stack view in an IDE, requesting its value. The IDE uses the JDI to get
the value, in particular it calls the
getValue
method, for
example:
theStackFrame.getValue(theLocalVariable)
Where
theStackFrame
is a
com.sun.jdi.StackFrame
and
theLocalVariable
is a
com.sun.jdi.LocalVariable
.
The front-end then sends this query over a communications channel
(let's say a socket) to the back-end running in the debuggee process. It
sends it by formatting it into a byte stream in accordance with the
JDWP. In particular, it sends a GetValues command (byte value: 1) in the
StackFrame command set (byte value: 16), followed by the thread ID,
frame ID, etc.
The back-end deciphers the byte-stream and sends the query off to the
VM through the JVM TI. In particular, let's say the requested value is
an integer, the following JVM TI function call is made:
error = jvmti->GetLocalInt(frame, slot, &intValue);
The back-end sends back across the socket, a response packet, which
will include the value of
intValue
, and which will be
formatted according to JDWP. The front-end deciphers the response packet
and returns the value as the value of the
getValue
method
call. The IDE then displays the value.
Requests to change debugging state are processed in a similar manner.
For example, a request to set a breakpoint goes through the same steps
-- although, of course, the JDI methods called, the JDWP commands sent,
and the JVM TI functions called are different. Additionally, the
front-end and back-end do more than shove data back and forth, they
track and schedule activity and convert, filter, and cache information,
so a breakpoint request will be processed quite differently than a get
value query - but the communication sequence will be the same.
What happens when the application being debugged finally hits this
breakpoint? This is where events come into play. The virtual machine
sends an event across the JVM TI interface. In particular, it calls the
event handling function passing the breakpoint:
The back-end has set the event handling function to be:
static void Breakpoint(jvmtiEnv *jvmti_env,
                       JNIEnv* jni_env, jthread thread,
                       jmethodID method, jlocation location)
{ ...
This back-end function starts a chain of activity which filters the
event to see if it is interesting, queues it, and sends it across the
socket in the JDWP format defined for breakpoint events. The front-end
decodes and processes the event, eventually generating a JDI event. In
particular, the JDI event is exposing it as a
com.sun.tools.jdi.event.BreakpointEvent
.
The IDE then gets the event by removing it from the event queue:
theEventQueue.remove()
where
theEventQueue
is a
com.sun.jdi.event.EventQueue
.
The IDE will probably update its displays by making many query calls
across the JDI.
Porting
Each virtual machine implementation needs its own JVM TI
implementation -- a JVM TI implementation must dig deeply into VM data
structures and must set hooks into the VM implementation in order to get
events. Adding JVMDT to a VM without JVM TI support is a significant
undertaking. Depending on the complexity of the VM and the amount of
optional JVM TI implemented, it might be a three to twelve month
project. Porting a VM which has JVM TI support to a new platform is
primarily the work of porting the non-JVM TI portions of the VM -- JVM
TI adds a comparatively small amount of work.
The reference implementation of the back-end can usually be moved to
a new platform with little (a few lines) or no change to the source and
then recompiled. To use a new VM on the same platform, the binary of the
back-end should generally work -- although, it's not Java programming
language code so you never know. Note that licensing issues are not
covered by this document.
The front-end implementation is written in the Java programming
language and will run on any platform or VM. However, the connector code
has functionality that may need to be extended for some systems. For
example, the reference implementation of the front-end includes a
launcher which assumes virtual machines are launched using Java SE
conventions. A user of the JDI can configure any launcher syntax he or
she wants, but generally a debugger application would prefer to leave
this to the JDI implementation. If a different type of communication
channel is desired (serial, for example) this too would need to be added
using the
Service
Provider Interface
introduced in JDK 5.0.
Copyright
© 1993, 2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA.
All rights reserved. Use is subject to
license terms
and the
documentation redistribution policy
.