Java Remote Method Invocation: 1 - Introduction
1 Introduction
Background
System Goals
1.1 Background
Distributed systems require that computations running in different
address spaces, potentially on different hosts, be able to communicate.
For a basic communication mechanism, the Java
TM
programming
language supports sockets, which are flexible and sufficient for general
communication. However, sockets require the client and server to engage
in applications-level protocols to encode and decode messages for
exchange, and the design of such protocols is cumbersome and can be
error-prone.
An alternative to sockets is Remote Procedure Call (RPC), which
abstracts the communication interface to the level of a procedure call.
Instead of working directly with sockets, the programmer has the
illusion of calling a local procedure, when in fact the arguments of the
call are packaged up and shipped off to the remote target of the call.
RPC systems encode arguments and return values using an external data
representation, such as XDR.
RPC, however, does not translate well into distributed object
systems, where communication between program-level
objects
residing in different address spaces is needed. In order to match the
semantics of object invocation, distributed object systems require
remote method invocation
or RMI. In such systems, a local
surrogate (stub) object manages the invocation on a remote object.
The Java platform's remote method invocation system described in this
specification has been specifically designed to operate in the Java
application environment. The Java programming language's RMI system
assumes the homogeneous environment of the Java virtual machine (JVM),
and the system can therefore take advantage of the Java platform's
object model whenever possible.
1.2 System Goals
The goals for supporting distributed objects in the Java programming
language are:
Support seamless remote invocation on objects in different virtual
machines
Support callbacks from servers to applets
Integrate the distributed object model into the Java programming
language in a natural way while retaining most of the Java programming
language's object semantics
Make differences between the distributed object model and local Java
platform's object model apparent
Make writing reliable distributed applications as simple as
possible
Preserve the type-safety provided by the Java platform's runtime
environment
Support various reference semantics for remote objects; for example
live (nonpersistent) references and persistent references
Maintain the safe environment of the Java platform provided by
security managers and class loaders
Underlying all these goals is a general requirement that the RMI
model be both simple (easy to use) and natural (fits well in the
language).
The first two chapters in this specification describe the distributed
object model for the Java programming language and the system overview.
The remaining chapters describe the RMI client and server visible APIs
which are part of the Java SE platform.
Copyright
© 1993, 2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA.
All rights reserved. Use is subject to
license terms
and the
documentation redistribution policy
.