org.ietf.jgss (Java SE 21 & JDK 21)
JavaScript is disabled on your browser.
Skip navigation links
Java SE 21 & JDK 21
Overview
Module
Package
Class
Use
Tree
Preview
New
Deprecated
Index
Help
Package:
Description
Related Packages
Classes and Interfaces
Package:
Description
|
Related Packages |
Classes and Interfaces
SEARCH
Module
java.security.jgss
Package org.ietf.jgss
package
org.ietf.jgss
This package presents a framework that allows application developers to
 make use of security services like authentication, data integrity and
 data confidentiality from a variety of underlying security mechanisms
 like Kerberos, using a unified API. The security mechanisms that an
 application can
 chose to use are identified with unique object identifiers. One example
 of such a mechanism is the Kerberos v5 GSS-API mechanism (object
 identifier 1.2.840.113554.1.2.2). This mechanism is available through
 the default instance of the GSSManager class.
The GSS-API is defined in a language independent way in
RFC 2743
. The Java
 language bindings are defined in
RFC 2853
An application starts out by instantiating a
GSSManager
which then serves as a factory for a security context. An application
 can use specific principal names and credentials that are also created
 using the GSSManager; or it can instantiate a
 context with system defaults. It then goes through a context
 establishment loop. Once a context is established with the
 peer, authentication is complete. Data protection such as integrity
 and confidentiality can then be obtained from this context.
The GSS-API does not perform any communication with the peer. It merely
 produces tokens that the application must somehow transport to the
 other end.
Credential Acquisition
The GSS-API itself does not dictate how an underlying mechanism
 obtains the credentials that are needed for authentication. It is
 assumed that prior to calling the GSS-API, these credentials are
 obtained and stored in a location that the mechanism provider is
 aware of. However, the default model in the Java platform will be
 that mechanism providers must obtain credentials only from the private
 or public credential sets associated with the
Subject
in the
 current access control context.  The Kerberos v5
 mechanism will search for the required INITIATE and ACCEPT credentials
 (
KerberosTicket
and
KerberosKey
) in
 the private credential set whereas some other mechanism might look
 in the public set or in both.  If the desired credential is not
 present in the appropriate sets of the current Subject, the GSS-API
 call must fail.
This model has the advantage that credential management
 is simple and predictable from the applications point of view.  An
 application, given the right permissions, can purge the credentials in
 the Subject or renew them using standard Java API's.  If it purged
 the credentials, it would be sure that the JGSS mechanism would fail,
 or if it renewed a time based credential it would be sure that a JGSS
 mechanism would succeed.
This model does require that a
JAAS login
be performed in order to
 authenticate and populate a Subject that the JGSS mechanism can later
 utilize. However, applications have the ability to relax this
 restriction by means of a system property:
javax.security.auth.useSubjectCredsOnly
. By default
 this system property will be assumed to be
true
(even when
 it is unset) indicating that providers must only use the credentials
 that are present in the current Subject. However, if this property is
 explicitly set to false by the application, then it indicates that
 the provider is free to use any credentials cache of its choice. Such
 a credential cache might be a disk cache, an in-memory cache, or even
 just the current Subject itself.
Related Documentation
For an online tutorial on using Java GSS-API, please see
Introduction to JAAS and Java GSS-API
.
Since:
1.4
All Classes and Interfaces
Interfaces
Classes
Exception Classes
Class
Description
ChannelBinding
This class encapsulates the concept of caller-provided channel
 binding information.
GSSContext
This interface encapsulates the GSS-API security context and provides
 the security services that are available over the context.
GSSCredential
This interface encapsulates the GSS-API credentials for an entity.
GSSException
This exception is thrown whenever a GSS-API error occurs, including
 any mechanism specific error.
GSSManager
This class serves as a factory for other important
 GSS-API classes and also provides information about the mechanisms that
 are supported.
GSSName
This interface encapsulates a single GSS-API principal entity.
MessageProp
This is a utility class used within the per-message GSSContext
 methods to convey per-message properties.
Oid
This class represents Universal Object Identifiers (Oids) and their
 associated operations.
Report a bug or suggest an enhancement
For further API reference and developer documentation see the
Java SE Documentation
, which contains more detailed, developer-targeted descriptions with conceptual overviews, definitions of terms, workarounds, and working code examples.
Other versions.
Java is a trademark or registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates in the US and other countries.
Copyright
© 1993, 2024, Oracle and/or its affiliates, 500 Oracle Parkway, Redwood Shores, CA 94065 USA.
All rights reserved. Use is subject to
license terms
and the
documentation redistribution policy
.